# CONTEST

A contest is a series of dice rolls between opponents, each trying to beat the previous roll until one side chooses not to roll and gives in, or fails to beat the previous roll and takes a complication or is taken out. When a PC gets into a conflict over something they want, a contest determines if any other character can intervene, thwart, or oppose the PC. Contests are almost always initiated by a player, who picks up dice and essentially says, “I’m doing this. Who’s stopping me?” If no one opposes the PC, there’s no need to roll dice—the contest’s outcome is determined as if the player succeeded. If an effect die is required, use the largest die in the initiating player’s dice pool.

## ENGAGING IN A CONTEST

A PC initiates a contest when they state they want to do something, and another character (either another PC, or a GMC) wants to stop them. The player who initiated the contest picks up the dice and rolls first, adding together two results for a total. If the opposing player decides against engaging in the contest after seeing the difficulty, the initiating character automatically succeeds in the contest. Otherwise, the opposing player assembles a dice pool and tries to beat the difficulty the initiating character set. If the opposing character doesn’t beat the initial difficulty, the initiating character wins the contest. If the opposing character beats the initial difficulty, the ball’s back in the initiating character’s court. They can choose to give in, in which case they define the failure on their own terms, cannot immediately initiate another contest with the opponent, and get a Plot Point.

## CONFLICT

Otherwise, the opposition’s total becomes the new difficulty, and the initiating character must roll again to try to beat it. Failing to beat the opposition means your opponent wins, giving them the opportunity to define how they stopped you. Contests go back and forth until one side gives in or fails to beat the difficulty. The winner can push the story forward with an advantage by giving the opposition a complication (or stress) using the effect die from their winning result. The opposing character, or another character in the scene, might still want to stop the initiating character, but the stakes have been changed in a meaningful way. In a high stakes scene the loser might instead be taken out of the scene. Players can spend a Plot Point to avoid being taken out, but they still take a complication. Sometimes the GM may initiate a contest when a GMC chooses to do a thing; the GM is essentially asking the players, “What are you going to do about it?”

## ABOUT GIVING IN

Giving in during a contest may seem counterintuitive. After all, a player or the GM is choosing to lose and give their opponent what they want. However, they get a Plot Point when they do this and get to describe the terms of the loss. It’s possible the opponent’s goal is to knock the character out, or trap them, or seize them, or worse. A player should never be forced to hand over control of their character as a result of giving in. That’s what makes it different from being taken out or being given complications (or stress)—you have a say in how that outcome plays out.

## INTERFERING IN A CONTEST

If a PC wants to get involved in a contest between two other characters, they can attempt to interfere—but it costs a Plot Point and comes with a bit of risk. Usually this means the PC wants something neither of the other two characters wants, or maybe the same thing as one of them but on their own terms. After each side has rolled at least once, a player can spend a Plot Point and describe how they’re trying to get between the characters. The player rolls their dice and compares the total to the current difficulty in the contest. If the PC doesn’t beat the total, the characters ignore the interruption and, when the contest concludes, the winner gives the PC a complication (or stress) equal to their effect die for getting in the way. If the PC beats the total, they’ve stopped the contest in its tracks. No one loses, gives in, or takes any complications—yet. If both sides are committed to continuing the contest, their players (or the GM if a GMC is one of the contestants) each hand the interfering PC a Plot Point and describe how they work around, over, or through them to continue their contest. Neither can give in until both have rolled again. An interfering PC may elect to interfere again by spending another Plot Point, but if either contestant rolls higher, they can inflict a complication (or stress) on the interloper equal to the contestant’s own effect die—that means the interfering character may get two complications if they don’t roll high enough.

## GROUP CONTEST

Contests can be used as a way to represent all-out scrambles for some kind of object, goal, or prize. One player initiates the contest, then any other character that wants to be involved in the contest can join in, one at a time as determined by the GM. The highest roller is the successful character. After the first roll to enter the contest, any character that chooses to stay in the contest takes a complication (or stress) if they aren’t the winner. They may otherwise give in as normal. If a PC loses in such a contest, the player should describe how things went badly for them. The winner chooses their effect die and gives it to all of the other contestants as a complication (or stress), but they can decide to make it a different type for each character if they like, though it still uses the same effect die to determine the size of the die.